# for Loop
The **for** loop is used to iterate over a given sequence, such as lists or strings.

The code below outputs each item in the list and adds an exclamation mark at the end

```python
words = ["hello", "world", "PYTHON", "text"]
for word in words:
    print(word + "!")
```
```
hello!
world! 
PYTHON!
text!
```

The **for** loop defines a variable that takes the value of the current item of the list on each iteration.

In the code above, the **word** variable represents the corresponding item of the list in each iteration of the loop.

> During the 1st iteration, word is equal to "hello", and during the 2nd iteration it's equal to "world", and so on.

A **for** loop can be used to iterate over strings

```python
str = "experimentic the loops"
count = 0

for x in str:
    if(x == 'e'):
        count += 1

print(count)
```
```
4
```

The code above defines a **count** variable, iterates over the string and calculates the count of **'e'** letters in it. During each iteration, the **x** variable represents the current letter of the string

> The count variable is incremented each time the letter 'e' is found, so at the end of the loop, it represents the number of 'e' letters in the string

Similar to while loops, the break and continue statements can be used in for loops, to stop the loop or jump to the next iteration

```python
text = "some kind of weird texts"
for x in text:
    if x == "n":
        break
    print(x)
```
```
s
o
m
e

k
i
```

# for vs while


**for** and **while** loops, which can be used to execute a block of code multiple times. So which do we use and when?

Usually we’d use the **for** loop when the number of iterations is fixed. For example, iterating over a fixed list of items in a shopping list.

The **while** loop is useful in cases when the number of iterations isn’t known and depends on some calculations and conditions in the code block of the loop. For example, ending the loop when the user enters a specific input in a calculator program.

> While both for and **while** loops can be used to achieve the same results, the **for** loop has a cleaner and shorter syntax, making it a better choice in most cases.
