# Loops
**Loops** allow you to repeat a block of code multiple times.

> If you need to process multiple user inputs, so that each time the user inputs something, the same block of code needs to be executed.

## while Loops
A **while** loop containing a variable that counts up from 1 to 5, at which point the loop terminates.

```python
x = 1
while x <=5:
    print(x)
    x = x + 1

print("Finished!")
```
```
1
2
3
4
5
Finished!
```
During each loop run, the **x** variable gets incremented by one, until it reaches 5.
> So, the loop will execute the print statement 5 times.

The statements inside the **while** loop need to be indented, similar to an **if** statement.

```python
x = 0
while x<10:
    print(x)
    x += 1
```
```
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
```

The code in the body of a **while** loop is executed repeatedly while the condition is **True**.
This is called **iteration**.

The following code adds the current number to the sum variable during each iteration

```python
sum = 0
x = 10
while x > 0:
    sum += x 
    x -= 1

print(sum)
```
```
55
```

You can also use other statements, such as **if** statements in loops.
This is especially useful in things like games, where you might need to loop through a number of player actions and add or remove points to the player’s score.

In this code, which uses an if/else statement inside a while loop to separate the even and odd numbers in the range of 1 to 10

```python
x = 1
while x < 10:
    if x%2 == 0:
        print(str(x) + " is even")
    else:
        print(str(x) + " is odd")

    x += 1
```
```
1 is odd
2 is even
3 is odd
4 is even
5 is odd
6 is even
7 is odd
8 is even
9 is odd
```
> **str(x)** is used to convert the number x to a string, so that it can be used for concatenation.

If the condition of the **while** loop remains **True**, the loop will run indefinitely, causing an **infinite loop**.

```python
x = 10

while  x > 5:
    print(x)
```
```
10
10
10
...
```
> A short way to create an infinite loop is by using **while True**
